Notes on Cosmetics 

FDA.GOV Cosmetic Regulations 

   It's against the law for a cosmetic to contain any ingredient that makes the product harmful when consumers use it according to directions on the label or, in the customary or expected way. It is true whether there is a regulation that specifically prohibits or restricts the use of the ingredients in cosmetics.  

   There is/exists one exception(as)(are) special instance or warning statement on the label and directions for a skin test. The label must record the following.  

     Caution - This product contains ingredients which may cause skin irritation or certain individuals, and a preliminary test according to accompanying directions should first be made. This/the product must not be used for the dyeing of eyelashes or eyebrows to do so may cause blindness. 

       It's against the law to use any ingredient that makes a cosmetic harmful when used as intended. FDA has regulations that specifically prohibit or restrict the use of the following ingredients in cosmetics. 

       Bithionol - is an antibacterial, anthelmintic and algaecide. Used to treat Anoplocephala perfoliata (tapeworms) in horses and Fasciola hepatica 

       Bithionol - (a) Bithionol has been used to some extent as an antibacterial agent in cosmetic preparations such as detergent bars, shampoos, creams, lotions and bases used to hide blemishes. New evidence of clinical experience and photo patch tests indicate that bithionol can cause photosensitivity in man when used topically and that in some instances the photosensitization may persist for prolonged periods as severe reactions without further contact with sensitizing articles. Also, there is evidence to indicate that bithionol may produce cross-sensitization with other commonly used chemicals such as certain halogenated salicylanilides and hexachlorophene. 

       It is, therefore, the view of the Food and Drug Administration that bithionol is a deleterious substance which may render any cosmetic product that contains it injurious to users. Accordingly, any cosmetic containing bithionol is deemed to be adulterated under section 601(a) of the Federal Food Drug, and cosmetic act.  

       (b)Regulatory proceedings may be initiated with respect to any cosmetic preparation containing bithionol shipped within the jurisdiction of the act after March 15, 1968. 

       cfr 700.11 (Code of Federal Regulations) 

       Chlorofluorocarbons propellants - The use of chlorofluorocarbons in cosmetics as propellants in self-pressurized containers is prohibited as provided in 2.125. 

       2.125 (Use of ozone-depleting substances in foods, drugs, devices or cosmetics).  

       (a) As used in this section, ozone-depleting substance (ODS) means any class 1 substance as defined in 40 CFR part 82 appendix A(Hyperlink indicates the content requested doesn't exist in the ecFR after 1/3/2017) or class 2 substance as defined in 40 CFR part 82, appendix B to subpart.(Observed following error the content requested does not exist in the ecFR after 1/3/2017 on attempting to access more information).  

       View Current Table of Contents for title 40. 

        Title 40 protection of environment 

       Chloroform (a) Chloroform has been used as an ingredient in cosmetic products. Recent information has become available for associating chloroform with carcinogenic effects in animals. Studies conducted by the National Cancer Institute have demonstrated that the oral administration of chloroform to mice and rats induced hepatocellular carcinomas (liver cancer) in mice and renal tumors in male rats. Scientific literature indicates that chloroform is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract, through the respiratory system, and through the skin. The commissioner concludes that, based on these findings, chloroform is a deleterious substance which may render injuries to users from any cosmetic product that contains chloroform as an ingredient. 

       (b) Any cosmetic product containing chloroform as an ingredient is adulterated and is subject to regulatory action under sections 301 and 601(a) of the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetic Act. Any cosmetic product containing chloroform in residual amounts from its use as a processing solvent during manufacture or as a byproduct from the synthesis of an ingredient, is not for the purpose of this section, considered to contain chloroform as an ingredient.  

       (21 CFR 700.18)[41 FR 26845, June 29 1976] 

       Hologenated Salicylonilides (Halogenation) is a process that introduces one or more halogen atoms.  

       (a) Halogenated salicylanilides (tribromsalan (TBS,3,4',5-tribromosalicylanilide), dirbomsalan (DBS,4'5-dibromosalicylanilide),metabromsalan (MBS, 3,5-dibromosalicylanilide and 3,3'4,5'-tetrachlorosalicylanilide(TCSA))) have been used as antimicrobial agents for a variety of purposes in cosmetic products. These halogenated salicylanilides are potent photosensitizers and cross-sensitizers and can cause disabling skin disorders. In some instances, the photosensitization may persist for prolonged periods as a severe reaction without further exposure to these chemicals. Safer alternative antimicrobial agents are available.  

       (b) These halogenated salicylanilides are deleterious substances which render any cosmetic that contains them injurious to users. Therefore, any cosmetic product that contains such a halogenated salicylanilide as an ingredient at any level for any purpose is deemed to be aduluterated under section 601(a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Comsetic Act. 

       (c) Any cosmetic product containing these halogenated salicylanilidesas an ingredient that is initially introduced into interstate commers after December 1, 1975, that is not in compliance with this ssection is subject to regulatory action. 

       [40 CFR 50531, Oct.30, 1975] 

       Hexachlorophene 

         Hexachlorophene, as a component of drug and cosmetic products. Was largely restricted due to potential neurological activity. 

         (a) Antibacterial component. The use of hexachlorophene as an antibacterial component in drug and cosmetic products has expanded widely in recent years. It is used in such products because of its bacteriostatic action againt gram-positive oranisms, especially against strains of staphylococcus however, hexachlorophene offers no protection against gram-negative infections. In addition the antibacterial activity depends largely on repeated use. A notice published in the Federal Register of April 4, 1972 (37 FR 6775) invited data on OTC antimicrobial ingredients, including hexachlorphene, for review by an OTC Drug advisory Review Panel to be convened under the procedures set forth in the Federal Register of May 11 1972 (37 CFR 9464). This statement of policy will remain in effect unless and until replaced by a monograph resulting from the OTC Drug Advisory Review Panel.  

         (b) Adverse effects. Though considered safe for many years, recent information has become available associating hexachlorophene with toxic effects, inclduing deaths. Studies have shown that toxic amounts of hexachlorophene can be absorbed through the skin of humans, especially the skin of premature babies or damaged skin. Human toxicity reports included data on sympyomatology, blood and tissue levels of hexachlorophene can be absorbed through the skin of humansm, especially the skin of premature babies or damaged skin,. Human toxicitiy reports include data on symptomaology, blood and tissue levels of hexachlorophene and descriptions of neuropathologic lesions. Recewnt infant deaths due to the use of baby powder accidentally contaminated with 6 percent hexachlorophene have occured. The accumulated evidence of toxicity is sufficient to require that continued marketing of hexachlorophene containing products be carefully defined in order to protect consumers.  

             Prescription drugs  

             (1) Because of their potential for harmful effect, drugs hexachlorophene, other than as a preservative as described below, are not considered to have been shown to be safe and effective, are regarded as new drugs requiring approved new drug applications, and would be misbranded for over the counter distribution. In the interest of public health protection, hexachlorophene containing drugs will be regarded as misbranded and subject to the regulatory proceedings unless the label bears the statement "Rx only," and the labeling on or within the package from which the drug is to be dispensed bears adequate infomration for its safe and effective use by practitioners in accord with 201.100(c) of the chapter.  

                (201.100 Prescription drugs for human use) 

                A drug subject to the requirements of section 503(b)(1) of the act shall be exempt from section 502(f)(1) if all the following conditions are met 

                  (a)The drug is  

                   (1a) In the possesion of a person( or his agents or employees) regularly and lawfully engaged in the manufacture,transportation,storage or wholesale distirbution of prescription drugs; or 

                   (2a) In the possession of a retail, hospital or clinic pharmacy or public health agency regularly and lawfully engaged in dispensing prescrioption drugs or 

                   (3a) In the possesion of a practioner licensed by law to administer or prescribe such drugs and  

                   (2) It is to be dispensed (the drug) in accordance with section 503(b)    

                   (2) It is to be dispensed in accordance with section 503(b) 

                 (b) The label of the druge bears  

                   (b1) The statement "Rx only" and  

                   (b2) The recommended or usual dosage and  

                   (b3) The route of administration, if it is not for oral use and  

                   (b4) The quantity or proportion of each active ingredient as well as the infomration required by section 502(d) and (e)and  

                   (b5) If it is for other than oral use; the names of all inactive ingredients, except that 

                        (b.5.1) flavorings and operfumes may be designated as such without naming their components.  

                        (b.5.2) Color additives may be designated as coloring without naming specific color componenets inless the naming of such components is required by a color addtiive regulation prescribed in subchapter A of this chapter.  

                        (b.5.3.) Trace amounts of harmless substances added soley for indivudal product indetification need not be names. If it is inteneded for adminstration by parenteral injection, the quantity of proporiton of all inactive ingredients, except that ingredients added to adjust the pH or to make the drug isotonic may be declared by name and a statement of their effect. 

                    (b6) An identifying lot or control number from which it is possible to determine the complete manufacturing history of the package of the drug.  

                    (b7) A statement directed to the pharmacist specifying the type of container to be used in dispensing the drug product to maintain its identity,strength,quality and, purity. Where there are standards and test procedures for determining that the container meets the requirements for specified types of containers as defined in an official compendium, such terms may be used. "Dispense in tight, light resistant container as defined in the National Formulary". 

                         Where standards and test procedurtes for determining the types of containers to be used in dispensing the drug product are not included in the official compendium, the specific container or types of containers known to be adequate to maintain the identity,strength,quality, and purtiy of the drug products shall be described. Example "Dispense in container/s which (statement for specifications which clearly enable the dispensing pharmacist to select and adequate container)" 

                         Provided, however, that in the case of containers too small or otherwise unable to accommodate a label with sufficient space to bear all such information but which are packaged with an outer container from which they are removed fro dispensing or use, the infomration required by paragrah(b2,b3,b5,b7) of section described may be contained in other labeling on or within the package from whic it is to be dispense. The infomration reffered to in paragraph(b1) of the section may be placed on such outer container only. and the information required by paragraph (b)(6) of this section may be on the crimp of the dispensing tube. The infomration required by the paragraph(b7) is not a required for prescription drug products packaged in unit-dose, unit-of-use, on other packaging format in which the manufacturer's original package is designed and intended to be dispensed to patients without repackaging. 

        (c) Prescription drugs.  Hexachlorophene 

               (1) Because of their potential for harmful effect, drugs containing hexacholorphene, other than as a preservatie as desribed arre not considered to have been shown to be safe ad effective, regarded as new drugs requiring approval new drug applications and would be misbranded for over the counter distribution. In the interest of public health protectio, hexachlorophene containing drugs will be regarded as misbranded and subject to regulatory proceedings unless the label bears the statement "Rx only," and the labeling on or within the package from which the drug is to be dispensed bears adequate information for its safe and effective use by practiotioners in accordance with 201.100(c). 

               201.100(C) 

                   (c) 

                     (1) Labeling on or within the package from which the drug is to be dispensed bears adequate information for its use, including indications,effects, dosages, routes,methods and frequency and duration of administration, and any relevant hazards, contraindications, side effects, and precautions under which practitioners licensed by law to administer the drug can use the drug safely and for the purpose for which it is intended, including all purposes for which it is advertised or represented and  

                     (2) If the article is subject to section 505 of the act, the labeling bearing such information is the labeling authorized by the approved new drug application or required as a condition for the certification or the exemption from certification requirements applicable to preparations of insulin or antibiotic drugs.  

               (2) The Food and Drug administation recognizes that hexachlorophene is useful as a bacteriostatic skin cleanser. It further concludes that the margin of safety is such that products containing hexachlrophene may appropriately be used within clearly delineated conditions of use.  

               (3) In order for such drugs to bear adequate information for safe and effective use the following statements which are represenative of the type of labeling for products shown to be effective bacteriostatic skin cleansers. Labeling for products other than bacteriostatic skin cleansers will be determined through the new drug procedures based on the available data.  

                   (c1) In the labeling other than on the immediate container label.  

                      Indications  

                         1. Bacteriostatic skin cleanser for surgical scrubbing or handwashing as part of patient care.  

                         2. For topical application to control an outbreak of grampositive infection where other infection control  

                        contraindications 

                         1. Not for use on burned or denuded skin or on mucous membranes.  

                         2. Not for routine prophylactic total body bathing. 

                        Warning Rinse thoroughly after use. Patients should be closelt monitored and use should be discontinued at the fist sign of any of the symptoms described below. Hexachlorophene is rapidly abosrbed and may produce tocix blood levels when applied to skin lesions such as ichthyosis congenita or the deratitits of Letterer-Siwe's syndrome or other generalized dermatologic conditions. Application to burns has also produced neurotoxicity and death. Infants have developed dermatitis, irritability, generalized clonic muscular contractions and decerebrate rigidity following application of a 6 percent hexachlorophene powder. Examination of brainstems of  

             (c1) Labeling on or within the package from which the drug is to be dispensed bears adequate information for its use, including indications effects, dosages,routes, methods and frequency and duration of administration, and any relevant hazards, contraindications, side effects and precautions under which practioners licensed by law to administer the drug can use the drug safely and for the purposes for which it is intended, including all purposes for which it is advertised or represented. 

             (c2) If the article is subject to section 505 of the the labeling bearing such information is the labeling authorized by the approved new drug application or required as a condition for the certification or the exemption from certification requirements applicable to preparations of insulin or antibiotic drugs. 

          (d)Any labeling, as defined in section 201(m) of the act, whether or not it is on or within a package from which the drug is to be dispensed, distributed by or on behalf of the manufacture,packer, or distributor of the drug that furnishes or purports to furnish information for use or which prescribes, recommends, or suggests a dosage for the use of the drug(other than dose infomation required by paragraph(b2) of section and 201.105(b2) 

           201.105(b2) 

           (d1) Adequate information for such use, including indications, effects,dosages,routes,methods and frequency as well as duration of administration and any relevant warnings,hazards,contraindications, side effects and precautions, under which practitioners licensed by law to administer the drug can use the drug safely and for the purposes for which it is intended, including all conditions for which it is advertised or represented and, if the article is subject to section 505 of the act, the parts of the labeling providing such information are the same in language and emphasis as labeling approved or permitted, under the provisions of section 505, and any other parts of the labeling are consistent with and not contrary to such approved or permitted labeling; and  

           (d2) The same information concerning the ingredients of the drug as appears on the label and labeling on or within the package from which the drug is to be dispensed. 

           (d3) The infomration required and in the format specified by 201.56.201.57 and 201.80 

          (e) All labeling described in paragraph (d) of this section bears conspicuously the name and place of business of the manufacture,packer,or distributor, as required for the label of the drug under 201.1 

          (f) Reminder labeling which calls attention to the name of the drug product but does not include indications or dosage recommendations for use of the drug product is exempted from the provisions of paragraph(d) of the section. This labeling serving as a reminder shall contain only the proprietary name of the drug product, if any; the established name of the drug product, if any; the established name of each active ingredient in the drug productl and, optionally, information relating to quantitative ingredient statements, dosage form, quantity of package contents,price, the name and address of the manufacturer, packer, or distributor or other written,printed or graphic matter contains no representation or suggestion relating to the drug product. If the commissioner finds that there is evidence of significant incidence of fatalities or serious injury associated with the use of a particular prescription drug, he or she may withdraw the exemption by so notifying the manufacturer, packer, or distributor of the drug by letter. Other than price lists and catalogs solely intended to convey price information including but not limited to those subjects to the requirements of 200.200 of the mentioned chapter is not permitted for a prescription 

              drug products. The reminder labeling which is intended to provide consumers with information concerning the price charge for a prescription for a particular drug product shall meet all the conditions contained in 200.200 of the chapter. Reminder labeling, other than that subject to the requirements of 200.200 of this chapter is not permitted for a drug for which an announcement has been published pursuant to a review of the labeling claims for the drug by the National Academy of Sciences/ National Research Council(NAS/NRC), Drug Efficacy Study and for which no claim has been evaluated as higher than "possibly effective." If the commissioner finds the circumstances are such that the reminder labeling will not be allowed and the manufacture,packerm or distributor will be notified either in the publication of the conclusions on the effectiveness of the drug or by letter.   

        (c) Prescription drugs  

           (1) Because of their potential for harmful effect, drugs containing hexachlorophene, other than as a preservative as described below, are not considered to have been shown to be safe and effective, are regarded as new drugs requiring approved new drug applications and would be misbranded for over-the-counter distribution. In the interest of public health hexachlorophene containing drugs will be regarded as misbranded and subject to regulatory proceedings unless the label bears the statement "Rx only," and the labeling on or within the package from which the drug is to be dispensed bears adequate information for its safe and effective use by practitioners, in accordance with 201.100(c) of the given chapter. 

                cfr(200.100) 

                  (c)  

                   (1) Labeling on or within the package from which the drug is to be dispensed bears adequate information for its use, including indications, effects, dosages, routes, methods and frequency and duration of administration, and any relevant hazards, contraindications, side effects, and precautions under which practitioners licensed by law to administer the drug can use the drug safely and for the purposes for which it is intended, including all purposes for which it is advertised or represented.  

                   (2) If the article is subject to section 505 of the act, the labeling bearing such information is the labeling authorized by the approved new drug application or required as a condition for the certification or the exemption from certification requirements applicable to preparations of insulin or antibiotic drugs.  

           (2) The Food and Drug administration recognizes that hexachlorophene is useful as a bacteriostatic skin cleanser. It further concludes that the margin of safety is such that products containing hexachlorophene may appropriately be used within clearly delineated conditions of use.  

           (3) In order for such drugs to bear adequate information for safe and effective use the following statements are representative of the type of labeling for products shown to be effective bacteriostatic skin cleansers will be determined through the new drug procedures based on the available data.  

             (i) In the labeling other than on the immediate container label.  

            Indications 

            1. Bacteriostatic skin cleanser for surgical scrubbing or handwashing as part of patient care.  

            2. For topical application to control an outbreak of gram-positive infection where other infection control procedures have been unsuccessful. Use only as long as necessary for infection control.  

            Contraindications 

            1.Not for use on burned or denuded skin or on mucous membranes.  

            2.Not for routing prophylactic total body bathing. 

            Warnings  

            Rinse thoroughly after use of using (hexachlorophene products. Patients should be closely monitored, and use should be immediately discontinued at the first sign of any of the symptoms described below. Hexachlorophene is rapidly absorbed and may produce toxic blood levels when applied to skin lesions such as ichthyosis cogenita or the dermatitis of Letterer-Siwe's syndrome or other generalized dermatologic conditions.  

            Applications to burns has also produced neurotoxicity and death.  

            Infants have developed dermatitis, irritability, generalized clonic muscular contractions and decerebrate rigidity following application of a 6 percent hexachlorophene powder. Examination of brainstems of those infants revealed vacuolization like that which can be produced in newborn experimental animals following repeated topical applications of 3 percent hexachlorophene. Moreover, a study of histologic sections of premature infants who died of unrelated cause has shown a positive correlation between hexachlorophene baths and lesions in white matter of brains.  

              on the immediate container label prominently displayed and in bold print 

              "Special Warning - The compound may be toxic if used other than as directed. Rinse thoroughly after use. Monitor patients closely for toxicity symptoms.  

            (4)Marketing of products for the indications listed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section may be contained without an approved new drug application(or required complement thereto) either until a notice of opportunity for hearing is issued on a proposal by the director of the center for drug evaluation and research to refuse to approve such new drug application(or required supplement) or until January 31 1978 whichever comes first, if all the following conditions were met after September 27 1972 

              (1) The product is labeled with the statement "Rx only" and adequate information for safe and effective use as set forth in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. 

              (2) Within 30 days, or by (10/27/1972), the holder of an approved new drug application submits a supplement to provide for the revised label and full disclosure labeling. As the label and labeling will have been put into use, the supplement should be submitted under the provisions of 314.70(c)(6)(3) of this chapter.   

              (e) Cosmetics Hexachlorophene may be used as a preservative in cosmetic products other than those which in normal use may be applied to mucous membranes or which are intended to be used on mucous membranes or which are intended to be used on mucous membranes, at a level that is no higher than necessary to achieve the intended preservative function and in no event higher than 0.1 percent. Such use of hexachlorophene shall eb limited to situations where an alternative preservative has not yet been shown to be as effective where adequate integrity and stability data for the reformulated product are not yet available. The components of a preservative system where hexachlorophene or other antimicrobial agents should be selected on the basis of the effect on the total microbial ecology of the product, not merely on gram-positive bacteria. 

       Mercury Compounds - Though readily absorbed through the skin on topical application and tend to accumulate in the body. May cause allergic reactions, skin irritation, or neurotoxic problems. The use of mercury compounds in cosmetics is limited to eye area products at no more than 65 parts per million (0.0065) as mercury calculated as the metal and is permitted if and only if no other effective and safe preservatives are available. All other cosmetics containing mercury are adulterated and subject to regulatory action unless it occurs in a trace amount of less than 1 part per million. (0.0001) calculated as the metal and its presence is unavoidable under conditions of good manufacturing practice (21 CFR 700.13) 

       Methylene chloride (21 CFR 700.19) 

          (a)Nethylene chloride has been used as an ingredient of aerosol cosmetic products, principally hair sprays, at concentrations generally ranging from 10-25 percent. In a 2-year animal inhalation study sponsored by the National Toxicology Program, Methylene chloride produced a significant increase in benign and malignant tumors of the lung and liver of male and femal mice. Based on these findings and on estimates of human exposure from the customary use of hair sprays, the Food And Drug Administration concludes that the use of methylene chloride in cosmetic products poses a significant cancer risk to consumers and that the use of this ingredients in cosmetic products may render these products injurious to health. 

          (b)Any cosmetic product that contains methylene chloride as an ingredient is deemed adulterated and is subject to regulatory action under sections 301 and 601(a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. 

       Vinyl chloride (cfr 700.14) 

          1. Highly toxic flammable, colorless gas primarily used to produce (PVC) plastic including pipes, cables and packaging. A known human carcinogen. chronic exposure causes liver cancer(angiosarcoma) neurological damage and skin/bone issues. Acute exposure leads to dizziness and irritation. 

           (a) Vinyl chloride has been used as an ingredient in cosmetic aerosol products including hair sprays. Where such aerosol products are used in the confines of a small room, as is often the case, the level of vinyl chloride to which the individual may be exposed could be significantly more than the safe level established in connection with occupational exposure. Evidence suggests that vinyl chloride inhalation can result in acute toxicity, manifested by dizziness, headache, disorientation, and unconsciousness were inhaled at high concentrations. Studies also demonstrate carcinogenic effects in animals because of inhalation exposure to vinyl chloride. Vinyl chloride has been linked to liver disease, including liver cancer in workers engaged in the polymerization of vinyl chloride.  

           (b) Any cosmetic aerosol product containing vinyl chlorides as an ingredient shipped within the jurisdiction of the Act is subject to regulations.  

       Zirconium (cfr 700.16) 

          (a) Zirconium containing complexes has been utilized as an ingredient in cosmetics and or cosmetics that are also drugs. Aerosol antiperspirants. Evidence indicates that certain zirconium compounds have caused human skin granulomas and toxic effects in the lungs and other organs of experimental animals. When used in aerosol form, some zirconium will reach the deep portions of the lungs for users. The lung is an organ, like skin, subject to the development of granulomatous changes until they have become advanced and, in some cases, permanent. It is the view of the Commissioner that zirconium is a deleterious substance that may render any cosmetic aerosol product that contains it injurious to users.  

          (b) Any aerosol cosmetic product containing zirconium is deemed to be adulterated under section 601(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.  

          (c) Any such cosmetic product introduced in interstate commerce after September 15 1977 is subject to regulatory action.    

              inhalation seems to be the issue at play here.  

    I can imagine there are other chemicals that can exist in cosmetics that are potentially dangerous, harmful or prohibitive.za 

    Cattle materials are also a issue. 

    Designed to prevent Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy(BSE) in humans and animals, include Specified Risk Materials (SRMs) such as brain, skull, eyes, tonsils, spinal cord, vertebral column and distal ileum of the small intestine from cattle 30 month or older. Other banned items are material from non-ambulatory disabled cattle, cattle not inspected and passed and mechanically separated beef. 21 CFR 189.5 

Given a set of makeup, what we want is to determine if the makeup is making a family member or someone else sick. 

And perhaps with enough research we could develop makeup that can also be antimicrobial. Certain chemicals can already cause or exert that. 

  

Where's 503 b?  

Gram negative bacteria can cause serious infections in healthcare settings.  

Infections from these bacteria are becoming increasingly difficult to treat because of antimicrobial resistance.  

To prevent these infections, healthcare providers should follow recommended infection control practices.  

Gram negative bacteria are a large group including pathogens like E.coli(Escherichia coli), Salmonella, Shigella, Neisseria Haemophilus spp.,Helicobacter pylori, and Chlamydia.  

Gram-Negative Bacteria  

Junio Oliverira; Wanda C. Reygaert. 

200.200 Prescription drugs;reminder advertisements and reminder labeling to provide price information to consumers. 

(a) Prescription drug reminder advertisements and reminder labeling that's intended to provide price information to consumers are exempt from the requirements of 201.100 and 202.1 of the chapter if all of the following conditions are met 

   (1) The only purpose of the reminder advertisement or reminder labeling is to provide consumers with information concerning the price charged for a prescription for a particular drug product, and the reminder advertisement or reminder labeling contains no representation or suggestion concerning the drug product's safety, effectiveness, or indications for use.  

   (2) The reminder advertisement or reminder labeling contains the proprietary name of the drug product, if any; the established(generic) name of the drug product, if any; the drug products strength if the product contains a single active ingredient or if the product contains more than one active ingredient and a relevant strength can be associated with the product without indicating each active ingredient(the establishment name) and quantity of each active ingredient are not required. The dosage form; and the price charged for a prescription for a specific quantity of the drug product.  

   (3) The reminder advertisement or reminder labeling may also include other written, printed, or graphic, matter eg. identification of professional or convenience services provided by the pharmacy Provide, that such information is neither false nor misleading and contains no representation or suggestion concerning the drug products safety effectiveness or indications for use.  

   (4) The price states in the reminder advertisement or reminder labeling as that charged for a prescription shall include all charges to the consumer including but not limited to, the cost of the drug product, professional fees, and handling fees if any Mailing fees and delivery fees, if any may be stated separately and without repetition.  

(b) The exemption from 201.100 and 202.1 of the chapter is applicable to all prescription drug reminder labeling and reminder advertisements solely intended to provide consumers with information regarding the price charged for prescriptions including price lists, catalogs and other promotional material whether mailed posted in a pharmacy and placed in a newspaper or aired on radio or television.  

(c) Any advertisement serving as a reminder or reminder labeling intended to provide consumers with prescription price information which is not in compliance with the section shall be the subject of appropriate regulatory action. Action may be taken against the product and or the reasonable person. 